README.md, before:

BigCrystal
==========

Arduino Library for displaying double height characters on an LCD display.

A corresponding library, [BigCrystalTWI](https://github.com/gregington/BigCrystalTWI)
is available to use if connecting the LCD using I<sup>2</sup>C.

Usage
-----

To use BigCrystal, the sketch will need the following includes:

    #include <LiquidCrystal.h>
    #include <BigCrystal.h>

Creating the LCD object is similar to the [LiquidCrystal library](https://github.com/Stephanie-Maks/Arduino-LiquidTWI);
the pin numbers on the Arduino that connect to the LCD need to be specified.
All constructors available in LiquidCrystal are available in BigCrystal. For example:

    BigCrystal lcd(22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32);

The following methods, in addition to those in LiquidTWI are available:
* writeBig(char c, uint8_t row, uint8_t col) - writes a single large character to the specified coordinates.
* printBig(char* str, uint8_t row, uint8_t col) - writes a String to the specified coordinates.
* widthBig(char c) - returns the width in characters of the specified large character.
  Includes the one column space following the character.

Commit message:

Library is now compatible with the New LiquidCrystal library
Added support for using either the standard Arduino LiquidCrystal
library of the New LiquidCrystal library.

BigCrystal now contains an lcd instance rather than using extending the
LiquidCrystal class. This is a breaking change and sketches using
v1.0.0 of BigCrystal will require modification.

README.md, after:

BigCrystal
==========

Arduino Library for displaying double height characters on an LCD display. This library is
compatible with the standard LiquidCrystal library dictributed with the Arduino IDE and
also with the [New LiquidCrystal](https://bitbucket.org/fmalpartida/new-liquidcrystal/wiki/Home)
which is a drop in replacement for the standard library.

The New LiquidCrystal library supports connections to LCDs using
* 4 bit parallel interface
* 8 bit parallel interface
* I<sup>2</sup>C expansion boards
* Shift registers

Note that this version of the library is incompatible with version 1 to implement compatibility
with the New LiquidCrystal library.

Contributors
------------
Thanks to Bill Perry who reviewed the original code and suggested I base this library on
the New LiquidCrystal library by F. Malpartida. Thak you also to Tim Eckel who wrote the
[LCDBitmap](http://code.google.com/p/arduino-lcd-bitmap/) library whose code gave me insight
on how to make this library compatible with both the standard LiquidCrystal and New
LiquidCrystal libraries.

Usage
-----

BigCrystal is implemented as a wrapper around an LCD object, created using either the standard or new LiquidCrystal libraries. The lcd object is passed through to the BigCrystal constructor.

BigCrystal exposes all LiquidCrystal public methods and delegates to the underlying object. This
means that once the BigCrytal object is created, you just need to reference that instance instead
of using both the BigCrystal instance and the underling LiquidCrystal instance.

The following methods are available to display double height characters:
* writeBig(char c, uint8_t row, uint8_t col) - writes a single large character to the specified coordinates.
* printBig(char* str, uint8_t row, uint8_t col) - writes a String to the specified coordinates.
* widthBig(char c) - returns the width in characters of the specified large character.
  Includes the one column space following the character.
